Add Cloudflare Workers hosting guide (#587)
grammyjs/website: site/docs/hosting/cloudflare-workers.md

# Hosting: Cloudflare Workers

> [Cloudflare Workers](https://workers.cloudflare.com/) is a public serverless computing service developed by Cloudflare, which allows you to run JavaScript in the edge.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Cloudflare Workers](https://workers.cloudflare.com/) is a public serverless computing service developed by Cloudflare, which allows you to run JavaScript at the edge.
```

Specifically, it is a worker which handles HTTP traffic and is written against the [Service Worker API](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Service_Worker_API).

> Together, with other services that are also provided by Cloudflare, namely:
> 
> 1. [Workers KV](https://developers.cloudflare.com/workers/runtime-apis/kv/), a global, low-latency, key-value data store,
> 2. [Durable Objects](https://developers.cloudflare.com/workers/runtime-apis/durable-objects/), a low-latency coordination and consistent storage for the Workers,
> 3. [R2](https://developers.cloudflare.com/r2/), an S3-compatible, zero egress-fee, globally distributed object storage,
> 4. [D1](https://developers.cloudflare.com/d1/), a queryable relational database at the edge,
> 5. [Queues](https://developers.cloudflare.com/queues/), a message queuing service that allows applications to reliably send and receive messages using Cloudflare Workers.
> 
> we can easily create our own Telegram bots, as well as [Web Apps](https://core.telegram.org/bots/webapps), all on the edge, and even for free (with some quotas)!

Reviewer: This is a very long sentence. Being German, I enjoy this, but I think in English it's better to break it up.
```suggestion
In combination with other services provided by Cloudflare, we can easily create our own Telegram bots.
These are some of the awesome things Cloudflare Workers offer us:

1. [Workers KV](https://developers.cloudflare.com/workers/runtime-apis/kv/), a global, low-latency, key-value data store,
2. [Durable Objects](https://developers.cloudflare.com/workers/runtime-apis/durable-objects/), a low-latency coordination and consistent storage for the Workers,
3. [R2](https://developers.cloudflare.com/r2/), an S3-compatible, zero egress-fee, globally distributed object storage,
4. [D1](https://developers.cloudflare.com/d1/), a queryable relational database at the edge,
5. [Queues](https://developers.cloudflare.com/queues/), a message queuing service that allows applications to reliably send and receive messages using Cloudflare Workers.

In addition, we can develop [Web Apps](https://core.telegram.org/bots/webapps) at the edge.
The best part: all of this if free (with some quotas)!
```

This guide shows you how you can host your grammY bots on Cloudflare Workers.

## Prerequisites

> To follow along, please make sure that you have a Cloudflare account with your workers subdomain configured.

Reviewer: Please include a link where to do this.

## Setting Things Up

First, create a new project:

```sh
npx wrangler generate my-bot
```

You can change `my-bot` to whatever you want.
This will be the name of your bot and the project directory.

After running the above command, follow the instructions you see to initialize the project.
There, you can choose between JavaScript or TypeScript.

> When the project is initialized, cd into `my-bot` or whatever directory you initialized your project in.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When the project is initialized, `cd` into `my-bot` or whatever directory you initialized your project in.
```

Depending on how you initialized the project, you should see a file structure similar to the following:

> ```sh
> .
> |-- node_modules
> |-- package-lock.json
> |-- package.json
> |-- src
> │   └── index.test.js
> │   └── index.js
> `-- wrangler.toml
> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```asciiart:no-line-numbers
.
├── node_modules
├── package.json
├── package-lock.json
├── src
│   ├── index.js
│   └── index.test.js
└── wrangler.toml
```
```

Reviewer: Should we maybe encourage people to use TypeScript, and use the corresponding example structure?

Next, install `grammy`, and other packages you might need:

```sh
npm install grammy
```

## Creating Your Bot

Edit `src/index.js` or `src/index.ts`, and write this code inside:

> ```js

Reviewer: We probably need code examples for both JS and TS.
```suggestion
```ts
```

Author: I thnk TS example isn’t necessary since this example already works for TS, too. Doesn’t it?

Reviewer: Eh. You're right.

We should still use TS highlighting not JS one for consistency reasons.

Author: Right.

// Note that we're importing from 'grammy/web', not 'grammy'.
import { Bot, webhookCallback } from "grammy/web";

> // You can replace `BOT_TOKEN` to your bot token, but it is better to store in an environment variable.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
// You can replace `BOT_TOKEN` with your bot token, but it is better to store in an environment variable.
```

// For more on this, see https://developers.cloudflare.com/workers/platform/environment-variables/#secrets-on-deployed-workers.
// You should also replace `BOT_INFO` with your bot info from `bot.api.getMe()`.
const bot = new Bot(BOT_TOKEN, { botInfo: BOT_INFO });

bot.command("start", async (ctx) => {
  await ctx.reply("Hello, world!");
});

addEventListener("fetch", webhookCallback(bot, "cloudflare"));
```

> The above example bot replies "Hello, world!" when it receives the start command.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The above example bot replies "Hello, world!" when it receives the `/start` command.
```

Author: My interpretation:

the start command = `/start`
the `/start` command = the the start command command

What’s yours?

Reviewer: Same.

In the end they refer to the same user interaction, and I find `/start` more explicit. Don't you think?

Author: "Command" refers to a bot command which refers to a `bot_command` entity which refers to an entity at the beginning of the message starting most of the times with a `/`. Can it be more explicit than this?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The above example bot replies "Hello, world!" when it receives `/start`.
```

Reviewer: But yes, we can also just leave it. Whatever you prefer :D

Author: This one nails it, thanks.

# Hosting: Cloudflare Workers

[Cloudflare Workers](https://workers.cloudflare.com/) is a public serverless computing platform that offers a convenient and simple solution for running JavaScript at the edge.

> With the ability to handle HTTP traffic and work with [Service Worker API](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Service_Worker_API), building Telegram bots becomes a breeze.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Having the ability to handle HTTP traffic and being based [Service Worker API](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Service_Worker_API), building Telegram bots becomes a breeze.
```

Author: Being based Service Worker API?

Reviewer: Yes, it's based on that. What's the question?

Author: _Having the ability to handle HTTP traffic and **being based Service Worker API**,_

Aren’t you missing a preposition or something?

Reviewer: Oh. I misread all the time. Yes, it should be _being based on the Service Worker API_

In addition, you can even develop [Web Apps](https://core.telegram.org/bots/webapps) at the edge, all for free within certain quotas.

This guide will take you through the process of hosting your Telegram bots on Cloudflare Workers.

## Prerequisites

To follow along, please make sure that you have a [Cloudflare account](https://dash.cloudflare.com/login) with your workers subdomain [configured](https://dash.cloudflare.com/?account=workers).

## Setting Things Up

First, create a new project:

```sh

> npx wrangler generate my-bot

Reviewer: Should we tell people to install the CLI first?

Author: The CLI?

Reviewer: Yes. `wrangler`. We didn't mention how to set up the system.

Author: Setup the system as in installing `wrangler`?

Reviewer: Yes

Author: It does not require any installation. `npx` runs it directly.

Reviewer: Ohhhh right, `npx` magic. Let's leave it then.

const bot = new Bot(BOT_TOKEN, { botInfo: BOT_INFO });

bot.command("start", async (ctx) => {
  await ctx.reply("Hello, world!");
});

addEventListener("fetch", webhookCallback(bot, "cloudflare"));
```

The above example bot replies "Hello, world!" when it receives `/start`.

## Deploying Your Bot

Before deploying, we need to edit `wrangler.toml`:

```toml
account_id = 'your account_id' # Get this from Cloudflare's dashboard.
name = 'my-bot' # Your bot's name, which will appear in the webhook URL, for example: https://my-bot.my-subdomain.workers.dev
main = "src/index.js"  # The entry file of the worker.
compatibility_date = "2023-01-16"
```

You can then deploy using the following command:

```sh
npm run deploy
```

## Setting Your Webhook

We need to tell Telegram where to send updates to.
Open your browser and visit this URL:

```text
https://api.telegram.org/bot<BOT_TOKEN>/setWebhook?url=https://<MY_BOT>.<MY_SUBDOMAIN>.workers.dev/
```

Replace `<BOT_TOKEN>`, `<MY_BOT>`, and `<MY_SUBDOMAIN>` with your values.
If the setup is successful, you'll see a JSON response like this:

```json
{
  "ok": true,
  "result": true,
  "description": "Webhook was set"

> }

Reviewer: ```suggestion
}
```

```

## Testing Your Bot

Open your Telegram app, and start your bot.
If it responds, it means you're good to go!

## Debugging Your Bot

For testing and debugging purposes, you can run a local or remote development server before deploying your bot to production.
Simply run the following command:

```sh
npm run start
```

Once the development server has started, you can test your bot by sending sample updates to it using tools like `curl`, [Insomnia](https://insomnia.rest), or [Postman](https://postman.com).

> For more information on the update structure, refer to the [Telegram API documentation](https://core.telegram.org/bots/api#update).

Reviewer: We should also link to the list of example updates here

Author: Where are they?

Reviewer: Linked under Resources

# Hosting: Cloudflare Workers

> [Cloudflare Workers](https://workers.cloudflare.com/) is a public serverless computing service developed by Cloudflare, which allows you to run JavaScript at the edge.
> Specifically, it is a worker which handles HTTP traffic and is written against the [Service Worker API](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Service_Worker_API).
> In combination with other services provided by Cloudflare, we can create powerful Telegram bots with ease.
> Here are some of the awesome services that Cloudflare Workers offer us:
> 
> 1. [Workers KV](https://developers.cloudflare.com/workers/runtime-apis/kv/), a global, low-latency, key-value data store,
> 2. [Durable Objects](https://developers.cloudflare.com/workers/runtime-apis/durable-objects/), a low-latency coordination and consistent storage for the Workers,
> 3. [R2](https://developers.cloudflare.com/r2/), an S3-compatible, zero egress-fee, globally distributed object storage,
> 4. [D1](https://developers.cloudflare.com/d1/), a queryable relational database at the edge,
> 5. [Queues](https://developers.cloudflare.com/queues/), a message queuing service that allows applications to reliably send and receive messages using Cloudflare Workers.
> 
> In addition, we can develop [Web Apps](https://core.telegram.org/bots/webapps) at the edge.
> The best part of it is that all of this is free within some quotas.
> 
> This guide shows you how you can host your grammY bots on Cloudflare Workers.
> 

Reviewer 2: _Less is more ..._
```suggestion
[Cloudflare Workers](https://workers.cloudflare.com/) is a public serverless computing platform that offers a convenient and simple solution for running JavaScript at the edge.
With the ability to handle HTTP traffic and work with the Service Worker API, building Telegram bots becomes a breeze.
In addition, you can even develop web apps at the edge, all for free within certain quotas.

This guide will take you through the process of hosting your Telegram bots on Cloudflare Workers.

```

Author: Love it.

## Setting Things Up

First, create a new project:

```sh
npx wrangler generate my-bot
```

You can change `my-bot` to whatever you want.
This will be the name of your bot and the project directory.

After running the above command, follow the instructions you see to initialize the project.
There, you can choose between JavaScript or TypeScript.

When the project is initialized, `cd` into `my-bot` or whatever directory you initialized your project in.
Depending on how you initialized the project, you should see a file structure similar to the following:

```asciiart:no-line-numbers
.
├── node_modules
├── package.json
├── package-lock.json
├── src
│   ├── index.js
│   └── index.test.js
└── wrangler.toml
```

Next, install `grammy`, and other packages you might need:

```sh
npm install grammy
```

## Creating Your Bot

Edit `src/index.js` or `src/index.ts`, and write this code inside:

```ts
// Note that we're importing from 'grammy/web', not 'grammy'.
import { Bot, webhookCallback } from "grammy/web";

> // You can replace `BOT_TOKEN` with your bot token, but it is better to store in an environment variable.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
// You can replace `BOT_TOKEN` with your bot token, but it is better to store it in an environment variable.
```

// For more on this, see https://developers.cloudflare.com/workers/platform/environment-variables/#secrets-on-deployed-workers.

> // You should also replace `BOT_INFO` with your bot info from `bot.api.getMe()`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
// You should also replace `BOT_INFO` with your bot info obtained from `bot.api.getMe()`.
```

const bot = new Bot(BOT_TOKEN, { botInfo: BOT_INFO });

bot.command("start", async (ctx) => {
  await ctx.reply("Hello, world!");
});

addEventListener("fetch", webhookCallback(bot, "cloudflare"));
```

The above example bot replies "Hello, world!" when it receives `/start`.

## Deploying Your Bot

Before deploying, we need to edit `wrangler.toml`:

```toml
account_id = 'your account_id' # Get this from Cloudflare's dashboard.

> name = 'my-bot' # The name of your bot, which will be a part of its webhook URL, for example: https://my-bot.my-subdomain.workers.dev

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
name = 'my-bot' # Your bot's name, which will appear in the webhook URL, for example: https://my-bot.my-subdomain.workers.dev
```

main = "src/index.js"  # The entry file of the worker.
compatibility_date = "2023-01-16"
```

You can then deploy using the following command:

```sh
npm run deploy
```

## Setting Your Webhook

We need to tell Telegram where to send updates to.
Open your browser and visit this URL:

> ```text
> https://api.telegram.org/bot<BOT_TOKEN>/setWebhook?url=https://my-bot.my-subdomain.workers.dev/
> ```
> 
> Replacing `<BOT_TOKEN>`, `my-bot`, and `my-subdomain` with your values. If successful, you get a JSON response similar to this:

Reviewer 2: Use markdown for highlighting
````suggestion
```md:no-line-numbers
https://api.telegram.org/bot<BOT_TOKEN>/setWebhook?url=https://<my-bot>.<my-subdomain>.workers.dev/
```

Replacing `<BOT_TOKEN>`, `<my-bot>`, and `<my-subdomain>` with your values.
If the setup is successful, you'll receive a JSON response like this:
````

Author: `text`, not `md`.

> ```json
> { "ok": true, "result": true, "description": "Webhook was set" }
> ```

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```json
{
  "ok": true,
  "result": true,
  "description": "Webhook was set"
}
```
```

## Testing Your Bot

Open your Telegram app, and start your bot.

> If it responded, it means you're good to go!

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If it responds, it means you're good to go!
```

## Debugging Your Bot

> You can also run a local or remote development server for testing and debugging before deploying your bot to production:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For testing and debugging purposes, you can run a local or remote development server before deploying your bot to production.
Simply run the following command:
```

```sh
npm run start
```

> After the development server has started, you can test your bot by sending sample updates to it via softwares like `curl` or [Postman](https://postman.com).
> Refer to [here](https://core.telegram.org/bots/api#update) for details on update structure.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Once the development server has started, you can test your bot by sending sample updates to it using tools like `curl`, [Insomnia](https://insomnia.rest), or [Postman](https://postman.com).
For more information on the update structure, refer to the [Telegram API documentation](https://core.telegram.org/bots/api#update).

```

When the project is initialized, `cd` into `my-bot` or whatever directory you initialized your project in.
Depending on how you initialized the project, you should see a file structure similar to the following:

> ````asciiart:no-line-numbers

Reviewer: Please revert

```sh
npm install grammy

> ````

Reviewer: Please revert

```

Once the development server has started, you can test your bot by sending sample updates to it using tools like `curl`, [Insomnia](https://insomnia.rest), or [Postman](https://postman.com).

> Refer to [here](https://core.telegram.org/bots/webhooks#testing-your-bot-with-updates) for example updates [here](https://core.telegram.org/bots/api#update) for more information on the update structure.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Refer to [here](https://core.telegram.org/bots/webhooks#testing-your-bot-with-updates) for update examples and [here](https://core.telegram.org/bots/api#update) for more information on the update structure.
```
